# Cognitive Services in Azure Synapse Analytics

Using pretrained models from Azure Cognitive Services, you can enrich your data with artificial intelligence (AI) in Azure Synapse Analytics.

[Azure Cognitive Services](../../cognitive-services/what-are-cognitive-services.md) are cloud-based services that add cognitive intelligence to your data even if you don't have AI or data science skills. There are a few ways you can use these services with your data in Synapse Analytics:

- The Cognitive Services wizard in Synapse Analytics generates PySpark code in a Synapse notebook that connects to a cognitive service using data in a Spark table. Then, using pretrained machine learning models, the service does the work for you to add AI to your data. Check out [Sentiment analysis wizard](tutorial-cognitive-services-sentiment.md) and [Anomaly detection wizard](tutorial-cognitive-services-anomaly.md) for more details.

- Synapse Machine Learning ([SynapseML](https://github.com/microsoft/SynapseML)) allows you to build powerful and highly scalable predictive and analytical models from various Spark data sources. Synapse Spark provide built-in SynapseML libraries including [Cognitive Services on Spark](https://github.com/microsoft/SynapseML/tree/master/notebooks/features/cognitive_services). 

- Starting from the PySpark code generated by the wizard, or the example SynapseML code provided in the tutorial, you can write your own code to use other cognitive services with your data. See [What are Azure Cognitive Services?](../../cognitive-services/what-are-cognitive-services.md) for more information about available services.




## Get started

The tutorial, [Pre-requisites for using Cognitive Services in Azure Synapse](tutorial-configure-cognitive-services-synapse.md), walks you through a couple steps you need to perform before using Cognitive Services in Synapse Analytics.
